---
layout: post
title:  "Naan"
date:   2017-12-08 19:00:00
tags: breads
---

Ingredients
-----------
- 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
- 1 cup warm water
- 1/4 cup white sugar
- 3 tablespoons milk
- 1 egg, beaten
- 2 teaspoons salt
- 4 1/2 cups bread flour
- 1/4 cup butter, melted

Instructions
------------
In a large bowl, dissolve yeast in warm water. Let stand about 10 minutes,
until frothy. Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft
dough. Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth.
Place dough in a well oiled bowl, cover with a damp cloth, and set aside to
rise. Let it rise 1 hour, until the dough has doubled in volume.

Punch down dough. Pinch off small handfuls of dough about the size of a golf
ball. Roll into balls, and place on a tray. Cover with a towel, and allow to
rise until doubled in size, about 30 minutes.

Light one chimney full of charcoal. When all the charcoal is lit and covered
with gray ash, pour out and spread coals out evenly over the charcoal grate and
oil the grill grate.

At grill side, roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle. Place dough on
grill, and cook for 1 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. Brush
uncooked side with butter, and turn over. Brush cooked side with butter, and
cook until browned, another 1 to 3 minutes. Remove from grill, and continue the
process until all the naan has been prepared.

Sources
------
[SeriousEats.com](http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2008/09/grilling-naan-indian-bread.html)

